# ch08: Scheduling: Multi-level feedback queue (MLFQ): Homework (Simulation) This program, `mlfq.py`, allows you to see how the MLFQ scheduler presented in this chapter behaves. See the README for details.

## Questions

1. Run a few randomly-generated problems with just two jobs and two queues; compute the MLFQ execution trace for each. Make your life easier by limiting the length of each job and turning off I/O’s.

```
Final statistics:
  Job  0: startTime   0 - response   0 - turnaround   6
  Job  1: startTime   0 - response   6 - turnaround  12

  Avg  1: startTime n/a - response 3.00 - turnaround 9.00

Final statistics:
  Job  0: startTime   0 - response   0 - turnaround   7
  Job  1: startTime   0 - response   7 - turnaround  12

  Avg  1: startTime n/a - response 3.50 - turnaround 9.50

Final statistics:
  Job  0: startTime   0 - response   0 - turnaround   7
  Job  1: startTime   0 - response   7 - turnaround  12

  Avg  1: startTime n/a - response 3.50 - turnaround 9.50
```

2. How would you run the scheduler to reproduce each example in the chapter?

- Each example can be made.

- For example, the second can be made by modifying the quantum length (similar to the RR flag and `-q`).

3. How would you configure the scheduler parameters to behave just like a round- robin scheduler?

- You must set the number of queues to 1.

4. Craft a workload with two jobs and scheduler parameters so that one job takes advantage of the older Rules 4a and 4b (turned on with the `-S` flag) to game the scheduler and obtain 99% of the CPU over a particular time interval.

-You have to queue to the size the of the turnaround time or your `-M`.

5. Given a system with a quantum length of 10 ms in its highest queue, how often would you have to boost jobs back to the highest priority level (with the `-B` flag) in order to guarantee that a single long running (and potentially-starving) job gets at least 5% of the CPU?

- I'm not sure I understand this.

6. One question that arises in scheduling is which end of a queue to add a job that just finished I/O; the `-I` flag changes this behavior for this scheduling simulator. Play around with some workloads and see if you can see the effect of this flag.

- I/O can let jobs come into the foreground while waiting on I/O.

