# ch09: Scheduling: Lottery: Homework (Simulation) This program, `lottery.py`, allows you to see how a lottery scheduler works. See the README for details.

## Questions

1. Compute the solutions for simulations with 3 jobs and random seeds of 1, 2, and 3.

```
Random 651593 -> Winning ticket 119 (of 153) -> Run 2
  Jobs:
 (  job:0 timeleft:1 tix:84 )  (  job:1 timeleft:7 tix:25 )  (* job:2 timeleft:4 tix:44 ) 
Random 788724 -> Winning ticket 9 (of 153) -> Run 0

...
...
...

  Jobs:
 (  job:0 timeleft:0 tix:--- )  (  job:1 timeleft:0 tix:--- )  (* job:2 timeleft:1 tix:6 ) 
--> JOB 2 DONE at time 11
```

2. Now run with two specific jobs: each of length 10, but one (job 0) with 1 ticket and the other (job 1) with 100 (e.g., `-l 10:1,10:100`). What happens when the number of tickets is so imbalanced? Will job 0 ever run before job 1 completes? How often? In general, what does such a ticket imbalance do to the behavior of lottery scheduling?

- The chances of job 0 running first are 1 in 100, until job 1 completes, so it's possible, but very unlikely.

- Ticket imbalance creates consistnet differences in priority that are simple to implement. It just takes a good and fast random algorithm.

3. When running with two jobs of length 100 and equal ticket allocations of 100 (`-l 100:100,100:100`), how unfair is the scheduler? Run with some different random seeds to determine the (probabilistic) answer; let unfairness be determined by how much earlier one job finishes than the other.

- The schedule should be pretty fair, as long as the time slice is relatively small.

- After the simulation, this was show to be the case, only 1 of the few simulations I ran was "unfair".

4. How does your answer to the previous question change as the quantum size (`-q`) gets larger?

- As the quantum size gets larger it becomes more and more common until the job length matches the time slice (max unfairness).

5. Can you make a version of the graph that is found in the chapter? What else would be worth exploring? How would the graph look with a stride scheduler?

- Yes, I could make a graph, through some basic data analysis, likely using Python.