# ch07: Scheduling: Introduction: Homework (Simulation) This program, `scheduler.py`, allows you to see how different schedulers perform under scheduling metrics such as response time, turnaround time, and total wait time. See the README for details.

## Questions

1. Compute the response time and turnaround time when running three jobs of length 200 with the SJF and FIFO schedulers.

- **SJF** Average -- Response: 200.00  Turnaround 400.00  Wait 200.00

- **FIFO** Average -- Response: 200.00  Turnaround 400.00  Wait 200.00

2. Now do the same but with jobs of different lengths: 100, 200, and 300.

- **SJF** Average -- Response: 133.33  Turnaround 333.33  Wait 133.33

- **FIFO** (*best case -- smallest first*) ~~Average~~ -- Response: 133.33  Turnaround 333.33  Wait 133.33 (*worst case -- largest first*) ~~Average~~ -- Response: 266.67  Turnaround 466.67  Wait 266.67

3. Now do the same, but also with the RR scheduler and a time-slice of 1.

- **RR** Average -- Response: 1.00  Turnaround 465.67  Wait 265.67

4. For what types of workloads does SJF deliver the same turnaround times as FIFO?

- When the smallest (then next smallest, and then next smallest, ...) job is given first, FIFO is the same as SJF.

5. For what types of workloads and quantum lengths does SJF deliver the same response times as RR?

- When the quantum length equals the job length, response times are the same for SJF and RR.

6. What happens to response time with SJF as job lengths increase? Can you use the simulator to demonstrate the trend?

- The response times increase in tandem. You can do this with the simulator.

7. What happens to response time with RR as quantum lengths increase? Can you write an equation that gives the worst-case response time, given N jobs?

- As quantum length increase, response times increase as well. I'm not sure about the equation, worst-case.
